

              C O N S T I T U T I O N    O F   F R E E S I D E
               University of Hull student Linux Cluster, 2016

  BACKGROUND

  Freeside is a student run non-profit organisation that was created in the
  late 1990s. Many students have taken the role of leadership for the
  organisation, some leaderships ending in disaster for the group and others
  allowing it to thrive. This constitution is being written to ensure that a
  fair and well-functioning leadership will be given to Freeside for the
  foreseeable future. It also serves as a record of ethical conduct within
  the group.

  DEFINITIONS

  'equipment'		- Any hardware or goods that are affiliated with
                          Freeside's operations or reside in the office.

  'POE'                 - Privately owned equipment

  'FOSS'		- Free and Open Source Software

  'Freeside'		- The non-profit organisation, not the room or members

  'member'              - A person currently participating in achieving the
                          purposes of Freeside as stated in section 1.

  'Team Leader'         - A person who has been elected to take ownership of
  			  a particular team within Freeside.

  'Office'		- The room that Freeside currently resides in

  'students'            - Current or Alumni students of the University of Hull



  1. PURPOSE OF ORGANISATION

    1.1 To provide computer infrastructure and software services to students, including but not limited to: Virtual Machines, Web Hosting, Game Servers and Development Environments.

    1.2 To provide education services; topics included but not limited to:
        Computer Hardware repair and maintainence, use of server operating systems and software,
        maintainence of Server infrastructure, and use of FOSS.

    1.3 To always attempt with great effort to achieve 1.1 and 1.2 using as
        much FOSS as practically possible.
        [CONTESTED]

    1.4 To provide a platform for people to discuss the recent developments of
        FOSS and technology in general.


  2. OWNERSHIP OF EQUIPMENT

    2.1 Equipment may be donated to Freeside either by members buying, giving
        or outside parties offering equipment.

      2.1.1  When equipment is donated, it should be done so without any
             obligation or pretence as to what the equipment should be used
             for. See section 4 for details of how decisions are made.

      2.1.2  Members who have donated equipment at any extent do not gain any
             advantage or exclusions from the rulings in section 4.

    2.2 Not all equipment in the office will belong to Freeside, but may
        belong to members privately.

      2.2.1  POE must not be used in running any live system in relation to
             1.1, with the exception of equipment used to monitor or interact with the live
             system.

      2.2.2  POE must be clearly labelled and identified to other members as
             privately owned.

      2.2.3  Freeside as an organisation is not liable for any damages or loss
             of POE.

      2.2.4  Members will take any precaution necessary to ensure that POE is
             not damaged or lost, failure to do so may result in loss of
	     membership and access rights.
	     

  3. METTINGS AND DECISIONS
  
    3.1 An Anual General Meeting shall be held in May or June of each academic year.
    
    3.2 Any Team Leader may call a meeting provided appropriate notice is given (At least 1 week).
    
    3.3 Any member may propose a topic for discussion at a meeting, provided it is given to the Secretary
        or Project Leader at least 1 day prior to the meeting, or at the end of any meeting.
        
    3.4 Small decisions may be made by the Team Leaders as they see appropriate. (E.g. whether to issue a 
        new user account)
        
    3.5 Larger decisions must be made at a meeting of either all Team Leaders or all Members. A majority of
        at least 60% in favor must be reached in order for a positive outcome.
        
        3.5.1 In order for a meeting to be eligible for voting, at least 40% of the current active members
              must be present, either in person or using an approved Video Chat program (e.g. Skype).


  4. APPOINTING LEADERSHIP
  
      4.1 Leadership elections shall be cast at the AGM each year.
      
      4.2 Leadership Elections must follow the general Meeting rules regarding attendance.
      
      4.3 5 Positions will be availible at any given time. These will be the Project Leader and the 4 Team
          Leader positions.
          
          4.3.1 If the current Freeside members decide to be a Society, these 5 positions will also correspond
                to the Society Executive positions.
    
     4.4 A vote of No Confidence may be called at any meeting to eject the Project Leader or any of the Team Leaders
     	 from their positions. Standard Meeting rules regarding attendance apply. A vote of at least 80% of the 
     	 members in attendance must vote in favour in order for the vote to pass.
     	 
     	 4.4.1 If one of these members is ejected from their position of power, a further vote will be cast to decide
     	       if they can remain a member of Freeside.
     	      
     	 4.4.2 If one of these members is ejected, their access to the Freeside equipment and Office will be temporarily
     	       suspended, pending a review of their access and permissions within the System.
     	 
  5. ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES

    5.1 No Alcohol is to be stored or consumed in the office.
    
    5.2 No drugs, prescription or otherwise, are to be stored or taken within the office. [CONTESTED]

    5.3 Any member found to be breaching these rules shall have their membership revoked
        without exception.
        
        5.3.1 The only exception to this rule is in the event of an emergency whereby
              prescription drugs are administered (e.g. in the event of anaphylactic shock).

  6. AMENDMENTS

    6.1 Amendments can be made at any meeting, provided a majority of 80% in favour is reached.

  7. MEMBERSHIP

    7.1 Membership shall be extended to any interested party, provided they meet the requirements specified here,
    	at the Project Leader's discression.
    
    7.2 Membership may be revoked provided a vote is taken at an eligible meeting, and the result is over 80% in favour.
    
    7.3 Membership lasts for a duration of 1 year, at which point the member must get in touch with the Project Leader
        to confirm their intention to continue membership.
        
    7.4 Members agree to join any Freeside communication channel that they are requested to join (e.g. Slack).
    
    7.5 Members agree to give their details to Freeside in case contact is needed. This will be stored in line with the
    	Data Protection Act 1998, and will only be accessed by Team Leaders or the Project Leader.
    	
    7.6 Any member engaging in activities which defame or smear the reputation of Freeside shall have their membership
        immediately terminated.
